#2.1 Hello, Go
Before we start building an application in Go, we need to learn how to write a simple program. It's like you cannot build a building without knowing how to build its ground. Therefore, we are going to learn the basic syntax to run some simple programs in this section.

##Program
According to international practice, before you learn how to programming in some languages, you may want to know how to write a program to print "hello world".

Are you ready? Let's Go!

	package main
	
	import "fmt"
	
	func main() {
		fmt.Printf("Hello, world or 你好，世界 or καλημ ́ρα κóσμ or こんにちは世界\n")
	}
	
It prints following information.

	Hello, world or 你好，世界 or καλημ ́ρα κóσμ or こんにちは世界
	
##Explanation
One thing that you should know in the first is that Go programs are composed by `package`.

`package<pkgName>` (In this case is `package main`) tells us this source file belongs to `main` package, and the keyword `main` tells us this package will be compiled to a program instead of package files whose extensions are `.a`.

Every executable program has one and only one `main` package, and you need a entry function called `main` without any argument and return value in `main` package.

In order to print `Hello, world…`, we called a function called `Printf`, this function is coming from `fmt` package, so we import this package in the third line of source code, which is `import "fmt"`

The way about packages in Go is like in Python, there are some advantages: Modularity(break up your program into many modules) and reusability(every module can be reused in many programs). We just talked about concepts about packages, we will make our own packages later.

In fifth line, we use keyword `func` to define the `main` function, the body of function is inside of `{}`, just like C, C++ and Java.

As you can see, there is no argument, we will learn how to write functions with arguments just a second, and you can also have functions that have no return value or have several return values.

In sixth line, we called function `Printf` which is from package `fmt`. This was called by syntax `<pkgName>.<funcName>`, which is very like Python-style.

As we mentioned in chapter 1, package's name and the name of folder that contains that package can be different. Here the `<pkgName>` comes from the name in `package <pkgName>`, not the folder's name.

you may notice that in the example that I showed you above contains many non-ASCII characters. The purpose of showing is telling you that Go supports UTF-8 by default, you can use any UTF-8 character in your programs. 

##Conclusion
Go uses `package` (like modules in Python) to organize programs. The function `main.main()` (this function must be in the `main` package) is the entry point of any program. Go supports UTF-8 characters because one of the founder of Go is the same founder of UTF-8, so Go supports multi-language by the time it was born.

##Links
- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous section: [Go basic knowledge](02.0.md)
- Next section: [Go foundation](02.2.md)