#interface
##interface
The subtlest design in Go should be the interface. After you read this section, you will be subdued by this design.

###What is interface
In short, interface is a set of methods, we use interface to define a set of actions.

Like the example in previous section, both Student and Employee can `SayHi`, but they don't do the same thing.

Let's do more work, we add one more method `Sing` to them, also add BorrowMoney to Student and SpendSalary to Employee.

Now Student has three method called SayHi, Sing, BorrowMoney, and Employee has SayHi, Sing and SpendSalary.

This combination of methods called interface, implemented by Student and Employee. So Student and Employee implement interface: SayHi, Sing. At the same time, Employee doesn't implement interface: SayHi, Sing, BorrowMoney, and Student doesn't implement interface: SayHi, Sing, SpendSalary. The reason is that Employee doesn't have method BorrowMoney and Student doesn't have method SpendSalary.

###Type of interface
Interface defines a set of methods, if a type implements all the methods we say that it implements the interface.

	type Human struct {
    	name string
    	age int
    	phone string
	}

	type Student struct {
    	Human
    	school string
    	loan float32
	}

	type Employee struct {
    	Human
    	company string
    	money float32
	}

	func (h *Human) SayHi() {
    	fmt.Printf("Hi, I am %s you can call me on %s\n", h.name, h.phone)
	}

	func (h *Human) Sing(lyrics string) {
    	fmt.Println("La la, la la la, la la la la la...", lyrics)
	}

	func (h *Human) Guzzle(beerStein string) {
    	fmt.Println("Guzzle Guzzle Guzzle...", beerStein)
	}

	// Employee overloads Sayhi
	func (e *Employee) SayHi() {
    	fmt.Printf("Hi, I am %s, I work at %s. Call me on %s\n", e.name,
        	e.company, e.phone) //Yes you can split into 2 lines here.
	}

	func (s *Student) BorrowMoney(amount float32) {
    	s.loan += amount // (again and again and...)
	}

	func (e *Employee) SpendSalary(amount float32) {
    	e.money -= amount // More vodka please!!! Get me through the day!
	}

	// define interface
	type Men interface {
    	SayHi()
    	Sing(lyrics string)
    	Guzzle(beerStein string)
	}

	type YoungChap interface {
    	SayHi()
    	Sing(song string)
    	BorrowMoney(amount float32)
	}

	type ElderlyGent interface {
    	SayHi()
    	Sing(song string)
    	SpendSalary(amount float32)
	}

We know that interface can be implemented by any type, and one type can implement many interfaces at the same time.

Noted that any type implements the empty interface `interface{}` because it doesn't have any method and all types have zero method as default.

###Value of interface
So what kind of values can be put in the interface? If we define a variable as type interface, any type that implements the interface can assign to this variable.

Like the above example, if we define a variable m as interface Men, then one of the Student, Human or Employee can assign to m. So we could have a slice of Men, any type that implements interface Men can assign to this slice, but be aware that the slice of interface doesn't have same behavior as slice of other types.

	package main
	import "fmt"

	type Human struct {
    	name string
    	age int
    	phone string
	}

	type Student struct {
    	Human 
    	school string
    	loan float32
	}

	type Employee struct {
    	Human 
    	company string
    	money float32
	}

	func (h Human) SayHi() {
    	fmt.Printf("Hi, I am %s you can call me on %s\n", h.name, h.phone)
	}

	func (h Human) Sing(lyrics string) {
    	fmt.Println("La la la la...", lyrics)
	}

	func (e Employee) SayHi() {
    	fmt.Printf("Hi, I am %s, I work at %s. Call me on %s\n", e.name,
        	e.company, e.phone) //Yes you can split into 2 lines here.
    }

	// Interface Men implemented by Human, Student and Employee	
	type Men interface {
    	SayHi()
    	Sing(lyrics string)
	}

	func main() {
    	mike := Student{Human{"Mike", 25, "222-222-XXX"}, "MIT", 0.00}
    	paul := Student{Human{"Paul", 26, "111-222-XXX"}, "Harvard", 100}
    	sam := Employee{Human{"Sam", 36, "444-222-XXX"}, "Golang Inc.", 1000}
    	Tom := Employee{Human{"Sam", 36, "444-222-XXX"}, "Things Ltd.", 5000}

    	// define interface i
    	var i Men

    	//i can store Student
    	i = mike
    	fmt.Println("This is Mike, a Student:")
    	i.SayHi()
    	i.Sing("November rain")

    	//i can store Employee
    	i = Tom
    	fmt.Println("This is Tom, an Employee:")
    	i.SayHi()
    	i.Sing("Born to be wild")

    	// slice of Men
    	fmt.Println("Let's use a slice of Men and see what happens")
    	x := make([]Men, 3)
    	// these three elements are different types but they all implemented interface Men
    	x[0], x[1], x[2] = paul, sam, mike

    	for _, value := range x{
        	value.SayHi()
    	}
	}
	
Interface is a set of abstract methods, it can be implemented by non-interface types, so it cannot implement itself.

###Empty interface
Empty interface is the interface that doesn't contain any method, so all types implemented empty interface. It's very useful when we want to store all types at some point, it's like void* in C.

	// define a as empty interface
	var a interface{}
	var i int = 5
	s := "Hello world"
	// a can store value of any type
	a = i
	a = s

If a function uses empty interface as its argument type, it can accept any type; if a function uses empty as its return value type, it can return any type.

###Method arguments of interface
Any variable that can be used in interface, so that we can think about how can we use this feature to pass any type of variable to the function.

For example, we use fmt.Println very much, but have you ever noticed that it accepts any type of arguments. Open source code of fmt, we see the following definition.

	type Stringer interface {
    	String() string
	}
	
It means any type that implements interface Stringer can pass to fmt.Println as argument. Let's prove it.

	package main
	import (
    	"fmt"
    	"strconv"
	)

	type Human struct {
    	name string
    	age int
    	phone string
	}

	// Human implemented fmt.Stringer
	func (h Human) String() string {
    	return "❰"+h.name+" - "+strconv.Itoa(h.age)+" years -  ✆ " +h.phone+"❱"
	}

	func main() {
    	Bob := Human{"Bob", 39, "000-7777-XXX"}
    	fmt.Println("This Human is : ", Bob)
	}
	
Look back to the example of Box, you will find that Color implemented interface Stringer as well, so we are able to customized print format. If we don't implement this interface, fmt.Println prints type with its default format.

	fmt.Println("The biggest one is", boxes.BiggestsColor().String())
	fmt.Println("The biggest one is", boxes.BiggestsColor())
	
Attention: If the type implemented interface `error`, fmt will call `error()`, so you don't have to implement Stringer at this point.

###Type of variable in interface
We know if a variable is the type that implemented the interface, any other type that implemented the same interface can be assigned to this variable. The question is how can we know the specific type store in the interface. There are two ways that I'm going to tell you.

- Assertion of Comma-ok pattern

Go has the syntax `value, ok := element.(T)` that check if the variable is the type that we expect, where the value is the value of variable, ok is a variable of boolean type, element is the interface variable and the T is the type of assertion.

If the element is the type that we expect, ok will be true, false otherwise.

Let's use an example to see more clearly.

	package main

	import (
    	"fmt"
    	"strconv"
	)

	type Element interface{}
	type List [] Element

	type Person struct {
    	name string
    	age int
	}

	func (p Person) String() string {
    	return "(name: " + p.name + " - age: 	"+strconv.Itoa(p.age)+ " years)"
	}

	func main() {
    	list := make(List, 3)
    	list[0] = 1 // an int
    	list[1] = "Hello" // a string
    	list[2] = Person{"Dennis", 70}

    	for index, element := range list {
        	if value, ok := element.(int); ok {
            	fmt.Printf("list[%d] is an int and its value is %d\n", index, value)
        	} else if value, ok := element.(string); ok {
            	fmt.Printf("list[%d] is a string and its value is %s\n", index, value)
        	} else if value, ok := element.(Person); ok {
            	fmt.Printf("list[%d] is a Person and its value is %s\n", index, value)
        	} else {
            	fmt.Println("list[%d] is of a different type", index)
        	}
    	}
	}

It's quite easy to use this pattern, but if we have many types to test, we'd better use `switch`.

- switch test

Let's use `switch` to rewrite above example.
	
	package main

	import (
    	"fmt"
    	"strconv"
	)

	type Element interface{}
	type List [] Element

	type Person struct {
    	name string
    	age int
	}

	func (p Person) String() string {
    	return "(name: " + p.name + " - age: "+strconv.Itoa(p.age)+ " years)"
	}

	func main() {
    	list := make(List, 3)
    	list[0] = 1 //an int
    	list[1] = "Hello" //a string
    	list[2] = Person{"Dennis", 70}

    	for index, element := range list{
        	switch value := element.(type) {
            	case int:
                	fmt.Printf("list[%d] is an int and its value is %d\n", index, value)
            	case string:
                	fmt.Printf("list[%d] is a string and its value is %s\n", index, value)
            	case Person:
                	fmt.Printf("list[%d] is a Person and its value is %s\n", index, value)
            	default:
                	fmt.Println("list[%d] is of a different type", index)
        	}
    	}
	}
	
One thing you should remember that `element.(type)` cannot be used outside of `swithc` body, which means in that case you have you use pattern `comma-ok`.

###Embedded interface
The most beautiful thing is that Go has many built-in logic syntax, like we use anonymous fields in struct. Not suprisingly, we can use interfaces as anonymous fields as well, but we call it `Embedded interface` here, it follows the same rules as anonymous fields. More specificly, if one interface has another interface as the embedded interface, it will have all methods that embedded interface has.

We can see source file in `container/heap` has one definition as follows.

	type Interface interface {
    	sort.Interface // embedded sort.Interface
    	Push(x interface{}) //a Push method to push elements into the heap
    	Pop() interface{} //a Pop elements that pops elements from the heap
	}

We see that sort.Interface is an embedded interface, so above Interface has three methods that in sort.Interface imolicitly.

	type Interface interface {
    	// Len is the number of elements in the collection.
    	Len() int
    	// Less returns whether the element with index i should sort
    	// before the element with index j.
    	Less(i, j int) bool
    	// Swap swaps the elements with indexes i and j.
    	Swap(i, j int)
	}
	
Another example is the `io.ReadWriter` in package `io`.

	// io.ReadWriter
	type ReadWriter interface {
    	Reader
    	Writer
	}
	
###Reflection
Go has reflection that is using for determine something in the runtime. We use `reflect` package, this official [article](http://golang.org/doc/articles/laws_of_reflection.html) explains how reflect works in Go.

There are three steps to use reflect. First, we need to convert interface to reflect types (reflect.Type or reflect.Value, depends on the situation).

	t := reflect.TypeOf(i)    // get meta-data in type i, and use t to get all elements
	v := reflect.ValueOf(i)   // get actual value in type i, and use t to change its value
	
After that, we convert reflect types to get values that we need.

	var x float64 = 3.4
	v := reflect.ValueOf(x)
	fmt.Println("type:", v.Type())
	fmt.Println("kind is float64:", v.Kind() == reflect.Float64)
	fmt.Println("value:", v.Float())
	
Finally, if we want to change value that is from reflect types, we need to make it changeable. Like we discussed the difference between pass by value and reference. The following code will not compile.

	var x float64 = 3.4
	v := reflect.ValueOf(x)
	v.SetFloat(7.1)
	
If have to use the way as follows to change value from reflect types.

	var x float64 = 3.4
	p := reflect.ValueOf(&x)
	v := p.Elem()
	v.SetFloat(7.1)
	
I just talked about basic knowledge about reflection, you have to pratice more to understand more.

##Links
- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous section: [Object-oriented](02.5.md)
- Next section: [Concurrency](02.7.md)