#Concurrency
Someone said that Go is the C language of 21st century. I think there are two reasons: the first, that Go is very simple language; the second, concurrency is a hot topic in today's world, and Go supports this feature in the language level.

##goroutine
goroutine in the core design of concurrency in Go, it's like thread but it isn't. More than a dozen goroutines maybe only have 5 or 6 underlying threads. Go also gives you full support to share memory in your goroutines. One goroutine usually uses 4~5KB stack memory. Therefore, it's not hard to run thousands of goroutines in one computer. The goroutine is much more lightweight, more efficient, and more convenient.

goroutines are running on the thread manager at runtime in Go, we use keyword `go` to create a new goroutine, it's a function in underlying level ( ***main() is a goroutine*** ).

	go hello(a, b, c)
	
Let's see one example.

	package main

	import (
    	"fmt"
    	"runtime"
	)

	func say(s string) {
    	for i := 0; i < 5; i++ {
        	runtime.Gosched()
        	fmt.Println(s)
    	}
	}

	func main() {
    	go say("world") // create a new goroutine
    	say("hello") // current goroutine
	}

	Output：
	hello
	world
	hello
	world
	hello
	world
	hello
	world
	hello
	
We see that it's very easy to use concurrency in Go by using keyword `go`. In above example, these two goroutines share some memory, but we would better follow the design recipe: Don't use share data to communication, use communication to share data.

runtime.Gosched() means let CPU executes other goroutines, and come back at some point.

Scheduler onle uses one thread to run all goroutines, which means it only implements concurrency. If you want to use more cores of CPU in order to use parallel, you have to call runtime.GOMAXPROCS(n) to set how many cores that you want to use. If n<1, it changes nothing, and this function may be removed in the future, see more details about parallel and concurrency in this [article](http://concur.rspace.googlecode.com/hg/talk/concur.html#landing-slide).

##channels
goroutines are running on the same memory address, so you have to keep synchronous when you want to access shared memory. How to communicate between different goroutines? Go uses a very good communication mechanism called `channel`. `channel` is like two-way pipeline in Unix shell: use channel to send or receive data. The only data type can be used in channels is the type `channel` and keyword `chan`. Be aware that you have to use `make` to careate a new `channel`.

	ci := make(chan int)
	cs := make(chan string)
	cf := make(chan interface{})
	
channel uses operator `<-` to send or receive data.

	ch <- v    // send v to channel ch.
	v := <-ch  // receive data from ch, and assign to v
	
Let's more examples.

	package main

	import "fmt"

	func sum(a []int, c chan int) {
    	sum := 0
    	for _, v := range a {
        sum += v
    	}
    	c <- sum  // send sum to c
	}

	func main() {
    	a := []int{7, 2, 8, -9, 4, 0}

    	c := make(chan int)
    	go sum(a[:len(a)/2], c)
    	go sum(a[len(a)/2:], c)
    	x, y := <-c, <-c  // receive from c

    	fmt.Println(x, y, x + y)
	}
	
Send and receive data in channels is blocked as default, so it's much easier to use synchronous goroutines. What I mean block is that the goroutine will not continue when it receives data from empty channel (value := <-ch) until other goroutines send data to this channel. In the other hand, the goroutine will not continue when it sends data to channel (ch<-5) until this data is recevied.

##Buffered channels
I introduced non-buffer channels above, and Go also has buffer channels that can store more than one element. For example, `ch := make(chan bool, 4)`, we create a channel can store 4 boolean elements. So in this channel, we are able to send 4 elements into it without block, but goroutinue will be blocked when you try to send fifth elements and no goroutine receives them.

	ch := make(chan type, value)

	n == 0 ! non-buffer（block）
	n > 0 ! buffer（non-block until n elements in the channel）
	
You can try following code in your computer and change some values.
	
	package main

	import "fmt"

	func main() {
    	c := make(chan int, 2)// change 2 to 1 will have runtime error, but 3 is fine
    	c <- 1
    	c <- 2
    	fmt.Println(<-c)
    	fmt.Println(<-c)
	}
	
##Range and Close
We can use range to operate buffer channels like in slice and map.

	package main

	import (
    	"fmt"
	)

	func fibonacci(n int, c chan int) {
    	x, y := 1, 1
    	for i := 0; i < n; i++ {
        	c <- x
        	x, y = y, x + y
    	}
    	close(c)
	}

	func main() {
    	c := make(chan int, 10)
    	go fibonacci(cap(c), c)
    	for i := range c {
    	    fmt.Println(i)
    	}
	}
	
`for i := range c` will not stop reading data from channel until the channel is closed. We use keyword `close` to close the channel in above example. It's impossible to send or rececive data in closed channel, you can use `v, ok := <-ch` to test if a channel is closed. If ok returns false, it means the there is no data in that channel and it was closed.

Remember that always close channel in producers, not in cunsumers, or it's very easy to get into panic status.

Another thing you need to remember is that channels are unlike files, you don't have to close them frequently, unless you are sure the channel is complete useless, or you want to exit range loops. 

##Select
In above examples, we only use one channel, but how can we deal with more than one channel? Go has a keyword called `select` to listen to many channels.

`select` is blocked as default, it continue executes only when one of channels have data to send or receive. If serveal channels are ready to use at the same time, select chooses them randomly to execute.

	package main

	import "fmt"

	func fibonacci(c, quit chan int) {
    	x, y := 1, 1
    	for {
        	select {
        	case c <- x:
            	x, y = y, x + y
        	case <-quit:
        	fmt.Println("quit")
            	return
        	}
    	}
	}

	func main() {
    	c := make(chan int)
    	quit := make(chan int)
    	go func() {
        	for i := 0; i < 10; i++ {
            	fmt.Println(<-c)
        	}
        	quit <- 0
    	}()
    	fibonacci(c, quit)
	}
	
`select` has `default` as well, just like `switch`, when all the channels are not ready to use, it executes default (doesn't wait for channel anymore).

	select {
	case i := <-c:
    	// use i
	default:
    	// executes here when c is blocked
	}
	
##Timeout
Sometimes goroutinue is blocked, but how can we avoid this to prevent the whole program is blocked? We can set timeout in select to do this.

	func main() {
    	c := make(chan int)
    	o := make(chan bool)
    	go func() {
        	for {
            	select {
                	case v := <- c:
                   		println(v)
                	case <- time.After(5 * time.Second):
                    	println("timeout")
                    	o <- true
                    	break
            	}
        	}
    	}()
    	<- o
	}
	
##Runtime goroutine
Package `runtime` has some functions to deal with goroutines.

- Goexit

	Exit current goroutine, but defer functions will be executed as usual.
	
- Gosched

	Let scheduler executes other goroutines, and comes back at some point.
	
- NumCPU

	Returns numeber of CPU cores

- NumGroutine

	Returns number of goroutines

- GOMAXPROCS

	Set how many CPU cores that you want to use

##Links
- [Directory](preface.md)
- Previous section: [interface](02.6.md)
- Next section: [Summary](02.8.md)